---
layout: post
title: "v7.0 series is ready, deprecating the v6.7 series"
date: 2017-03-11
author: Nicolas Sebrecht
categories: development
---

{% assign links = site.data.links %}
{% assign icons = site.data.icons %}


Near *8 months* after the first v7.0.0 release the latest v7.0.14 is quite
reliable.

<!--more-->

* junk
{:toc}


### The v7.0 series

The v7.0 series was born due to breaking changes. The main change was the move
to the SQLite backend driver by default.

A good work have been done to improve this series in different areas:

- the SQLite backend;
- concurrency issues;
- the structure algo comparison;
- IMAP/IMAP syncs;
- XOAUTH2;
- mbnames;
- some fixes for some other bugs.

Actually, all the releases since v7.0.0 are small bugfix releases.

{:.DarkBlue}
With this fresh new release of v7.0.14, we get a reliable version of
offlineimap.


### Time to deprecate the v6.7 series

At the time of the release of v7.0.0 I've officially provided support for the
v6.7 series to make the transition as smooth as possible. There is not anymore
reasons to keep it and remain with the legacy text backend.

{:.DarkRed}

I plan to remove the *DEPRECATED* legacy text backend in the near future. This
may happen for the next release.


### Welcoming the official testers

We improved the release cycle by adding a new step. Before new releases, I
freeze the code and make a call for testing. The official testers are expected
to try and test the tip of the git branch called `next`.

{:.note}

This is usually done **after** I've tried it myself. Actually, I'm always
running the tip of the `next` branch for all my offlineimap accounts.

**The distribution maintainers are already very involved for a long time**. I'm
happy some users decided to join our efforts. Here are the current official
testers:

- Abdó Roig-Maranges
- Ben Boeckel
- Chris Coleman
- Darshit Shah
- Eygene Ryabinkin
- Igor Almeida
- Ilias Tsitsimpis
- "J"
- Łukasz Żarnowiecki
- Rainer M Krug

{:.DarkBlue}

Obviously, newcomers are welcome at any time. We provide better support to the
official testers. To become a member of this team you just have to declare you
intend to join. Let us know! ,-)

We've written [documentation about testing
offlineimap](http://www.offlineimap.org/doc/Testing.html).

